>> Shirley Wu: So to start off with,
let's talk about how to draw those
charts with just SVG elements.
So SVG is an XML type language,
just like HTML, but
instead of drawing kind of,
I guess, containers with text,
SVG is really great at drawing
shapes onto the screen.
And so there's a lot of different
kinds of SVG elements, but
the ones I tend to use the most are
rectangles, circles, and text, and paths.
And so for rectangles, you are required
to give it at least a width or
height to draw onto the screen.
And if you want to draw
it anywhere other than 0,
0 coordinate, you have to give
it the x and y of the top left.
So that's how you draw a rectangle,
x, y, width, height.
For circles you want to give
it at least a radius and
then the x and
y coordinates of its center.
To draw text, actually,
I think you just needed to give it text,
but you can give it x, y, some offset and
text-anchor, which is
the horizontal alignment.
So text anchor, think of it as a line,
text line, in CSS,
except in CSS it's left-center-right and
then in SVG, because we just
want to make things a slight bit different
and difficult it's start, middle, end.
[LAUGH] That's how you can
think of the text anchor.
And then, last but not least,
this is my favorite SVG element.
These are paths, and with paths,
you want to give it a D attribute, which
is basically the path command to follow.
And you tell it where you want to move to,
where you want to draw lines to,
curve to, arc to.
And we won't really be talking about
the specifics of how to draw a path today,
just because it can get pretty
intimidating-looking actually.
But what I do want to
show you is that with
paths you can draw literally any
shape you want, that you imagine.
So you can draw curves, you can draw
circles, any shape, and so
if you ever feel up to it, wait.
I just about to show you
what you can do with it.
So this was one of my
projects two years ago and
this is how I got really
familiarized with SVG paths,
you literally can make any of these
shapes that you want with SVG paths.
It's extremely powerful.
So I would highly recommend
checking it out sometime,
when you have a chance.
>> Shirley Wu: And
we have to also talk about
the SVG Coordinate System.
So with the SVG Coordinate System,
the 0, 0 starts in the top left corner.
And then the x increases
as we go towards the right,
and the y increases as we go down.
And this is really really
important to mention, because for
example, if we want to be drawing
a rectangle in the screen.
Like I mentioned earlier,
a rectangle you draw by giving it the x,
y of the top left and
the width and height.
So the x, y of the top left,
maybe its something like 25,
50, but then the x,
y of the bottom is 125, 100.
So you'll have to take that into
account when you're kind of figuring
out your width and height and subtracting
the bottom right from the top left.
And this will make a bit more sense
later when we're talking about
figuring out the y coordinate of,
say, your bar chart.
So I wanted to mention this early on.